---
title: csv
slug: csv
type: scanner
status: stable
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Consume comma-separated values row by row, including support for custom delimiters.

```yml
# Config fields, showing default values
csv:
  custom_delimiter: "" # No default (optional)
  parse_header_row: true
  lazy_quotes: false
  continue_on_error: false
  expected_headers: [] # No default (optional)
  expected_number_of_fields: 0 # No default (optional)
```

### Metadata

This scanner adds the following metadata to each message:

- `csv_row` The index of each row, beginning at 0.



## Fields

### `custom_delimiter`

Use a provided custom delimiter instead of the default comma.


Type: `string`  

### `parse_header_row`

Whether to reference the first row as a header row. If set to true the output structure for messages will be an object where field keys are determined by the header row. Otherwise, each message will consist of an array of values from the corresponding CSV row.


Type: `bool`  
Default: `true`  

### `lazy_quotes`

If set to `true`, a quote may appear in an unquoted field and a non-doubled quote may appear in a quoted field.


Type: `bool`  
Default: `false`  

### `continue_on_error`

If a row fails to parse due to any error emit an empty message marked with the error and then continue consuming subsequent rows when possible. This can sometimes be useful in situations where input data contains individual rows which are malformed. However, when a row encounters a parsing error it is impossible to guarantee that following rows are valid, as this indicates that the input data is unreliable and could potentially emit misaligned rows.


Type: `bool`  
Default: `false`  

### `expected_headers`

An optional list of expected headers in the header row. If provided, the scanner will check the file contents and emit an error if any expected headers don't match.


Type: `array`  
Requires version 1.6.0 or newer  

```yml
# Examples

expected_headers:
  - first_name
  - last_name
  - age
```

### `expected_number_of_fields`

The number of expected fields in the csv file.


Type: `int`  
Requires version 1.6.0 or newer  


