---
title: s2
slug: s2
type: input
status: experimental
categories: ["Services"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::caution EXPERIMENTAL
This component is experimental and therefore subject to change or removal outside of major version releases.
:::
Consumes records from S2 streams

Introduced in version 1.5.0.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yml
# Common config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  s2:
    basin: "" # No default (required)
    access_token: "" # No default (required)
    streams: null # No default (required)
    cache: "" # No default (required)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yml
# All config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  s2:
    basin: "" # No default (required)
    access_token: "" # No default (required)
    streams: null # No default (required)
    cache: "" # No default (required)
    max_in_flight: 0
    update_streams_interval: 1m
    backoff_duration: 100ms
    start_seq_num: earliest
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Generate an authentication token by logging onto the web console at
[s2.dev](https://s2.dev/dashboard).

### Cache

The plugin requires setting up a caching mechanism to resume the input after
the last acknowledged record.

To know more about setting up a cache resource, see
[Cache docs for Bento](https://warpstreamlabs.github.io/bento/docs/components/caches/about).

### Metadata

This input adds the following metadata fields to each message in addition to the
record headers:

- `s2_basin`: The S2 basin where the origin stream lives.
- `s2_stream`: The origin S2 stream.
- `s2_seq_num`: Sequence number of the record in the origin stream formatted as a string.

All the header values are loosely converted to strings as metadata attributes.

**Note:** An [S2 command record](https://s2.dev/docs/stream#command-records) has no header
name. This is set as the `s2_command` meta key.


## Examples

<Tabs defaultValue="Input with Prefix" values={[
{ label: 'Input with Prefix', value: 'Input with Prefix', },
]}>

<TabItem value="Input with Prefix">

Fetch records from all the streams with the prefix `my-favorite-prefix/` in the basin.

```yaml
cache_resources:
  - label: s2_seq_num
    file:
      directory: s2_seq_num_cache

input:
  label: s2_input
  s2:
    basin: my-favorite-basin
    streams: my-favorite-prefix/
    access_token: "${S2_ACCESS_TOKEN}"
    cache: s2_seq_num

output:
  label: stdout
  stdout:
    codec: lines
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Fields

### `basin`

Basin name


Type: `string`  

### `access_token`

Access token for S2 account
:::warning Secret
This field contains sensitive information that usually shouldn't be added to a config directly, read our [secrets page for more info](/docs/configuration/secrets).
:::


Type: `string`  

### `streams`

Streams prefix or list of streams to subscribe to


Type: `unknown`  

### `cache`

Cache resource label for storing sequence number


Type: `string`  

### `max_in_flight`

Optionally sets a limit on the number of messages that can be flowing through a Bento stream pending acknowledgment from the input at any given time. Once a message has been either acknowledged or rejected (nacked) it is no longer considered pending. If the input produces logical batches then each batch is considered a single count against the maximum. **WARNING**: Batching policies at the output level will stall if this field limits the number of messages below the batching threshold. Zero (default) or lower implies no limit.


Type: `int`  
Default: `0`  

### `update_streams_interval`

Interval after which the streams list should update dynamically


Type: `string`  
Default: `"1m"`  

### `backoff_duration`

Interval to backoff for before reconnecting to a stream


Type: `string`  
Default: `"100ms"`  
Requires version 1.6.0 or newer  

### `start_seq_num`

Start consuming the stream from either the earliest or the latest sequence number


Type: `string`  
Default: `"earliest"`  
Requires version 1.6.0 or newer  
Options: `earliest`, `latest`.


